Abstract

In this thesis, we present a novel approach to provide secure access to passwords across multiple devices. Recent security issues concerning cloud services have shown that depending on third-parties for availability can compromise confidentiality. Our goal is to manage credentials without de- pending on third-party services. A mobile devices serves as the storage for credentials since it provides a secure hardware-backed environment. To make the passwords available, we rely on a Bluetooth connection between the mobile device and the web browser.
To achieve this goal, we implemented an Android application and an ac- companying Chrome web extension. The extension retrieves data sent from the application and fills it directly into the login fields of the website. To access and distribute passwords, the user must authenticate using biometric identification.

Introduction

A study [1] shows that the average email address is linked to over 100 accounts. When generating and storing personal passwords, the average user does it in an unsafe manner as stated in [2]. As discussed in [3], the average user also does not create particularly safe or hard to remember passwords. As mentioned in [3], [2], and [4], users often reuse the same password for multiple accounts.
Password managers can help create and remember different passwords more easily. There exist different kinds of password managers. Local pass- word managers store data locally, for example on a computer or mobile device. This is a safe option to manage credentials. However, making them available throughout different devices can be challenging.
Then there are web-based password managers, meaning that no data is saved locally on any device and credentials are retrieved over a website. Ad- ditionally, browser integration may be supported, which makes passwords available through the browser in use.
A cloud synchronization may be offered in both kinds of password man- agers to make them available on multiple devices. However, this provides the shared infrastructure to consumers. [5] discusses that privacy issues may occur if sensitive information can be retrieved, such as unauthorized secondary usage, lack of user control and unclear responsibility.
There exist countless options to store sensitive data. In this work, we want to explore the possibility of making credentials available without depending on third-party services. Our goal is to provide secure and independent credential storage. To reduce external dependencies, no cloud services shall be used. Simultaneously credentials remain available on multiple devices via a Bluetooth connection.
To show the feasibility, we designed and implemented an Android creden- tial manager. Additionally, we developed an accompanying Google Chrome extension, which uses the Web Bluetooth API [6]. The extension and applica- tion establish a secured Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) connection to transfer the credentials.
Data is stored on the device. On demand one selected credential can be shared with the extension at a time. Accessing and sending credentials re- quires authentication from the user via fingerprint. This process ensures that only registered fingerprints can access and share sensitive data. The Chrome extension then fills username and password in into the forms on the website.



Motivation

There exist many applications that offer services to store user credentials securely. Most users work on more than one device, which makes the availability of credentials important. By synchronizing data with cloud services, credentials are made available more easily. However, using cloud services can compromise data confidentiality. As research [7] has shown, the Android application of LastPass is prone to exploitation through, for example, phishing attacks. Also, as shown in [8], in LastPass, as well as other well-known managers that offer cloud synchronization, security vulnerabilities were found that compromise confidentiality of data. However, if cloud services are renounced, availability on different devices can be challenging.
Mobile phones support our everyday lives and can help to make data available wherever the user is. Additionally, they offer a secure way to store data. For example, most Android phones rely on the hardware-backed key storage. Therefore, secure data storage for user credentials can be provided.

The motivation for this project is to provide secure storage and availability while reducing external dependencies. By storing them on a mobile device, authenticity can be provided. In Section 5.5 we discuss how the smartphone hardware can provide a secure environment for data storage. To simplify the distribution of credentials we use a Bluetooth connection between a mobile device and computer in use. This allows credentials to be available through- out multiple devices. Through the Bluetooth communication channel, data is sent to the computer and filled into the login fields. Hence, third parties are excluded, and confidentiality can be provided. Since data is not saved on the computer, the risk of threatened security is reduced. Simultaneously it is possible to retrieve credentials from a different computer.
